# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2021-12-16T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Aaron Coburn
* e Pavlik
* Rahul Gupta
* Angel Araya
* [Kevin Howard](https://khoward.inrupt.net/profile/card#me)
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Aaron Coburn
* elf Pavlik

---

## Topics

### Who should merge suggestions in PRs?

* SC: I've reconsidered "who should merge suggestions" in PRs - which was briefly discussed in https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-25.md#incorporate-feedback-to-webhook-proposal. I'd like to change my position: All suggestions should be approved by the proposer of the PR or the editors of the target document. It is ultimately their role and responsibility, and we should make sure not to overstep, even if all well intended. If the proposers/editors are not attending to the suggestions in a timely manner, we can look into other options, like calling for more editors.


### Why does notification negotiation happen through an endpoint rather than in a resource-oriented way?
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/14

* SC: Created https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/355 about specifying discovery and description of authoritative information about the server on the Solid Protocol (SP) level. This information can essentially cover "communication options", which would be one of the things we need to visit in the Notifications Protocol (NP) for the Discovery of the Notification Gateway: https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol#notification-gateway
* SC: NP should use the solution coming out of 355.
* SC: Current method relies on `.well-known/solid` but that may not be suitable. May be at risk (as mentioned in 2021-10-25 meeting) and we should revisit / PR etc.
* SC: per the solid protocol, the server may not be able to respond to that URL. Similar to `OPTIONS *` or root URI path
* AC: Reconsider necessity of gateway API in notification protocol https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/24
* AC: There are 2 layers of discovery, Sarven discussed the 1st layer. I agree that `.well-known/solid` is not ideal. Protocol will decide if it will get moved to HTTP Link header. 2nd layers is something we need to define. At present it's an API interaction, in the process of implementing it, we found that we can support the same use cases with static RDF document. Server implementation is considerably easier, I think client implementation is also easier. If we agree I'll make change via PR.
* RG: How applications do this today?
* AC: As of current draft the application will send POST and server will reply with JSON-LD document.
* RG: Not in solid, how is it done in other popular projects, eg. socket.io
* AC: That is on the lower level, the gateway is informing client what protocols are available. This happens on higher level than just websockets. It is solid specific.
* AC: I'll make PR and we can discuss details there.
* SC: on the protocol level, the link header approach seems to be the direction being supported
* SC: We can discover server description form any resource (HTTP header), the other option would be from the storage. Server description could list all the storages. Please respond in https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/355

ACTION: AC will make a PR to the notification protocol specification regarding the gateway API discovery mechanism


## Add Solid Notification JSON-LD context
URL: https://github.com/solid/vocab/pull/62

* SC: AC created the JSON-LD context. Please review.
* SC: We'll need to follow-up on creating the vocab: http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/notification
* AC: I needed to identify WebID property. I don't know existing vocab which defines webid as property.
* eP: question about the subscription types. At present there is a separate document for webhook but not eventsource or LDN. To clarify, should we add these subscription types now or wait until there is a definition for these types
* AC: In the notifications protocol we are defining a couple of subscription types. I think it would be ok to include them in that context. By not specifying details of those subscription types we reference something that doesn't exist. If we refer to them there we refer to something that doesn't really exist yet.
* eP: it is important to show different subscription types in the initial draft, but with WebHooks, we have two types, so it would be better to use the subscription types that currently exist.
* AC: I'm in favor of that. If we can come up with proposal for some of them, like LDN or EventSource we can fill that out.
* eP: add timeframe for this, can we have it resolved by next meeting
* AC: next meeting is 2nd Thursday of Jan, if there is no subscription type proposal we remove references. If proposal was submitted we can leave them in.
* RH: should these other specifications be treated in such as way that they can be added later?
* eP: we should leave it open that new subscription types can be defined later
* AC: It is open right now, you can always add additional JSON-LD context. I don't even need to go through any standardization process. If some subscription types become canonical they can be added to the main JSON-LD context.
* RG: I would argue that even WebSockets and WebHooks should remain in their dedicated JSON-LD context.
* AC: I think we just disagree on that.
* ...: All of the design how subscription types and JSON-LD context works is based on how Verifiable Credential works. Some are defined as part of core data model and others can be defined externally. There was broad support for that, I'm not inventing anything new here.
* SC: Should we change type names from 2021 to 2022
* AC: I would be inclined to leave it 2021, if someone comes up with new way they can use 2022.
* eP: We shouldn't get too attached to those numbers and just keep them unique.
* AC: we just need a monotonically increasing number
* SC: re: webid property, let's leave it in the notification vocab. That way it is clear that this is used in the context of notifications
* AC: JSON-LD context was defined in that PR, vocab is still absent, technically it's not a problem but we should add vocab in the PR for completeness.

ACTION: SC will work on LDN subscription type
ACTION: AC will work on EventSource subscription type
ACTION: AC will add notification vocabulary (TTL) to the JSON-LD context PR

### Solid Notifications Protocol ~FPWD

* SC: ~FPWD is expected for 2021Q4 milestone as per panel charter: https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/notifications-panel-charter.md
* SC: Current state of the spec seems fit for ~FPWD. Any reason we can't or should hold off?
* SC: Solid Protocol will release a 0.9.0 soon (tomorrow) and it needs to refer to either the ED or ~FPWD. ~FPWD would be better.
* SC: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/363 captures current websockets (without authentication) as non-normative with the intention to pick up Notifications Protocol in a later version of the Protocol spec.
* AC: Is there any difference between ED and FPWD. Both contents can change any time.
* SC: URL of editors draft doesn't change, FPWD has version and new version would have new URL. Solid protocol would refer to frozen version.
* eP: to the versions, there isn't a large commitment to either, since the snapshot can change
* ...: will there be a specific document describing authentication and authorization with the subscription types?
* ...: some of this can refer to Solid-OIDC, etc, but there are some details that might need to be specified
* SC: in the WH specification, there was some discussion to keep authN orthogonol
* AC: to the extend possible it would be good to keep AuthN orthogonal, we also need to give indication to people what is possible. I don't want to end up with specification that does hand waving. Future versions can use GNAP or something else.
* eP: we could be granular: for Solid subscription types using Solid-OIDC, do the following. But without that information, it is confusing to implementers.
* AC: I think it is reasonable point, having a section saying that in the context of WebSockets that is how AuthN works.
* SC: in the notification protocol, we do have a section on this, which gives Solid-OIDC as an example
* eP: Solid-OIDC is defined for HTTP but not for WebSockets
* AC: To clarify, old version implemented in NSS uses some version of auth. WebSocket proposal relies on HTTP at this point and than it drops to websocket. Websocket url will be bound to authenticated subscription.
* SC: this is similar across different subscription types; otherwise we would need to specify per subscription type
* eP: it might still be useful to have per-subscription type information about authentication. If every subscription type has a short section on this, it would be helpful for implementers
* SC: in terms of per-subscription type information, do you mean "specify" or "refer to a common mechanism"
* eP: for WS, the authN description would likely just refer to the upper protocol. For WebHook, it will be different.
* SC: no issue with that
* AC: no issue with that either
* SC: for new documents, there should be a section about Authentication
* RG: what is the general stance on providing guidance on implementers? Do you implement this in parallel
* ...: where do you make note of implementation guidance?
* AC: Personally I think that primer is good place to provide guidance to implementers. Spec document with too much details may be hard to read.
* ...: Yes we work on implementing as we write the specs.
* SC: primers are not always present and sometimes written by other authors
* RG: It may be good plan to write primer
* SC: a primer is in scope, but I don't know that right now is the best time to write a primer. There are substantial changes being made to the spec at present, and there may not be sufficent capability to support keeping two documents in line. By mid-next year, that might be a good time to write a primer, once the specification has settled
* AC: +1 on waiting

ACTION: we should have a ~FPWD available that would be PR'ed to the solid/specification repo.
