# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2021-11-25T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Pete Edwards
* Rahul Gupta
* e Pavlik

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Pete Edwards

### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### Incorporate feedback to Webhook Proposal
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/34

* SC: Ted's suggestions are merged.
* eP: The grammar suggestions have been merged so are we ready to merge the PR
* SC: We need some understanding of who should merge suggestions. Normally person making proposal if they find suggestions suitable but we don't need be too pedantic about kinds of suggestions. In this case requirement wasn't changed, just grammar, so anyone can merge. The editors' panel is discussing this on a broader level.

ACTION: eP to merge ✅

### Use Cases and Requirements
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/32
* SC: There were no objections to the initial PR so we can probably merge it.
* RG: How do we add to this?
* SC: Once merged, you can PR a use case. Right now it is more like a template which will be updated at some point. There is a section on a table of use cases where there is one example. To add a new use case, PR a new section after the existing one. Start the PR on the use case only.
* RG: Can we start with an issue first?
* SC: If there is no issue, create one first, then PR and say this is in response to the issue. Do not include the requirements at this stage as the use case should be agreed first.

ACTION: SC to commit typo change.

PROPOSAL: SC to continue as editor.

* eP: +1
* RG: +1
* PE: +1

ACTION: SC to merge PR.✅


### Organise Proposals
* eP: Can we organise repos better. Move solid-webhook-notifications.md (and other files) to solid/notifications . Delete solid-notifications.md ?
* SC:  Moving and deleting these are both OK. How do we make sure there is some history maintained. DO we need to refer back from the solid-notifications repo to the last URL of the latest state of the old files.
* RG: A link back to the old file would be useful and a link in the old file pointing users to the new location.
* SC: We should not move/delete until we have agreed how to track history.
* eP: We need to avoid people corecting the wrong document
* SC: Until we have the connection to the proposal commit we should not delete it
* eP: In a README put the link to tranck thereference.

PROPOSAL: eP to move the webhooks document. Commit to copy the file and add a README with the link.

* SC: I don't tink we shoudl update the README
* eP: Could we have a CHANGELOG
* SC: Good idea
* eP: Link from CHANGELOG file in the repo, not from the document itself. The commit message can have a link too.
* SC: Showed "Derived from" relation in solid protocol as an example.
* eP: You can get the link from the last commit. This link will always exist.
* RG: Why not delete the file contents and put a message saying it has been moved
* SC: Normally you don't change the meaning of the resource
* eP: we can use https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/3fdc8057d88d6c2e38055557fe62cc3f9c1ba752/proposals/solid-notifications.md which will not disappear.
* SC: When you delete the file, does that link still work.
* eP: Yes, that revision is maintained
* RG: What are we putting in this panel if we remove the MD file?
* SC: We will keep the use cases and any other proposals that can start from here, plus any highlevel things we can keep here/
* SC: Once a work item is started, we can say where that work will go.
* RG: So this is a temporary holiding place for anything related to notifications until we find the right home?
* SC: It is an incubation space. Not everything will be taken up within the panel.

ACTION: eP to move the webhook document.
ACTION: SC to move the notifications protocol.

* eP: Do you have a preference for a webhook directory or drop files in the root - I prefer a directory.
* SC: The protocol was done a particular way which could be used as a pattern. You can see the repo is called notificaitons and if the file is called protocol, e.g., end up with https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol (using GitHub pages for now for the Editor's Draft). And then if/when it moves to solid/specification, it'll be published under `TR/{shortname}`.
* eP: Problem with page rendering whilst loading dokieli so suggestion is to use `deferred`.
* SC: It already loads after a `documentLoaded` event but I will look into it.
* eP: There is an issue #36 referencing this and loading async.
* eP: So I will call the file webhooks.md? We can adjust it later if needed.
* SC: That's good, but it's a description type so should it be webhook-subscription?
* SC: We should keep the names consistent.
* eP: OK I'll go with webhook-subscription.md.
* SC: The problem with the slash directory is that GitHub pages quietly loads index.html but when we move it to a solid server, if spec is on a `/` it will be a problem further down the line. That's why we use an actual name instead of slash. In this case `notifications` is the directory and we are not expecting a lot at this root so protocol is fine.


### Why does notification negotiation happen through an endpoint rather than in a resource-oriented way?
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/14

* SC: Created https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/355 about specifying discovery and description of authoritative information about the server on the Solid Protocol (SP) level. This information can essentially cover "communication options" which would be one of the things we need to visit in the Notifications Protocol (NP) for the Discovery of the Notification Gateway: https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol#notification-gateway
* SC: NP should use the solution coming out of 355.
* SC: Current method relies on `.well-known/solid` but that may not be suitable. May be at risk (as mentioned in previous 2021-10-25 meeting) and we should revisit / PR etc.
