# Solid Notifications Panel Charter Review

Date: 2021-09-09
Time: 14:00 UTC

Meeting: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
Discussion: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Aaron Coburn
* Kevin Howard
* Justin Bingham
* elf Pavlik
* Pete Edwards
* Angel Araya
* Ruben Verborgh
* Jamie Fiedler
* Dmitri Zagidulin
* Tim Berners-Lee

## Announcements: General announcements, agenda review, call for scribe..
* Scribe: Kevin
* First public panel meeting 2021-09-16
* Use Gitter for discussions: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Link to HackMD to be included in meeting requests.

## PullRequests: Review open pull requests

### Panel Charter
* Review proposed charter: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/264/
* Overview
* Meeting Schedule:
  * Ruben: Could there be bi-weekly meetings? Good to use GitHub issues so they can be assigned.
  * Sarven: OK.
* Group feedback/considerations/next steps (please record feedback in PR)
* Scope:
  * elf: Several different approaches. Is the panel to address all of them or just focus on one? S2S eg. [WebSub](https://www.w3.org/TR/websub/), real-time Websockets/Streaming HTTP responses, [Push API](https://www.w3.org/TR/push-api/) when app or user agent is inactive
  * Dmitri: Good to prioritize. Server-to-server?
  * Sarven: depends on UCs. see eg https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/1 , https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/36
  * Justin: Agree on priortization. Good to write up use cases so everyone is clear on terminology.
* Success Criteria:
  * Sarven: Good to have at least 2 implementations. More if they are closed source.
  * Sarven: To show maturity, good to have other outside of spec writers doing implementations.


## Issues: Take up existing issues
* Review strawpoll: https://github.com/solid/process/pull/264#issuecomment-913128810
* Discussion:
  * Tim: Would like to see insecure WebSockets written up and include as part of v0.9. Need to patch security issue.
  * Aaron: Code is implemented in ESS, and proposal written up.
  * Tim: It will take a while to get this into the spec. What should ESS, NSS, & CSS do in the meantime?
  * Aaron: Will continue to use implemented secure WebSockets until a new approach is agreed.
  * Justin: We wanted to get early buy-in from all stakeholders so implementation as done in parallel to the spec.
  * Tim: Implement secure WebSockets in NSS based on ESS approach?  Who would do this?    * Main concern on the PR: Whether to do a short-term security patch or follow longer Notifications process.
  * Kevin: Should the panel focus exclusively on fixing the WebSockets security flow before moving forward, or should it be handled independently of the panel?
  * Justin: I'm worried about giving something to people temporary and changing it after short time. May cause frustration in the community, and take approximately the same time.
  * Tim: Best bet for the community is to copy ESS code to NSS.
  * Ruben: If we are copying, need a versioning mechanism.
  * Aaron: Happy to make proposal based on ESS implementation. Other Solid server implementers will be able to based their implementations on this proposal in advance of it being a FPWD.
  * Justin: Agree with using ESS proposal. It would be a good start.
  * Ruben: Should relevant issues in other repos be moved into a Notications Panel specific repo? 
    * Sarven: Action for first meeting.
  * Tim: W3C uses 'member submission' process. Where member company can submit a proposal to be used as starting point.

## Discussion: Community feedback and discussion
*

## Actions
* Sarven: Follow up on Aaron's offer to make proposal based on ESS implementation at first Panel public meeting.
* Sarven: Follow up at first Panel public meeting about moving relevant issues into the same repo.
* Sarven: Plan to merge PR by Sunday midnight.
