# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2021-09-16T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Kevin Howard](https://khoward.inrupt.net/profile/card#me)
* Justin Bingham
* Aaron Coburn
* Angel Araya
* elf Pavlik
* Kjetil Kjernsmo


## Announcements

### Contributions
* Join the W3C Solid CG: https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join
* W3C Account Request: http://www.w3.org/accounts/request
* W3C Community Contributor License Agreement: https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/

### Scribe Selection
* Kevin Howard

### Notes and Reminders
* RSVP when the agenda is up.
* Let's +q in call chat. Use gitter chat for anything that should persist (links, jokes etc.)

### Introductions
* AA: Janeiro Digital software developer. Working with Solid for over a year.

---

## Topics

### Previous Minutes
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-09-09.md

* SC: Pre-panel meeting. Mentioned here for awareness not for approval. Feedback welcome.


### Previous Actions
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-09-09.md#actions

* SC: Pre-panel actions. Mentioned here for awareness not for approval. Feedback welcome.


### Meeting Frequency
* SC: Panel to vote.

PRE-PROPOSAL: weekly.

* elf: There is an overlap with Solid World - First Thursday of month.
* elf: 3rd Thu could be called on demand when needed.
* SC: Use gitter chat to fill the gap..

PROPOSAL: bi-weekly (every 2 weeks) 2nd and 4th Thursday of the month.

* SC: +1
* AC: +1
* JB: +1
* eP: +1

ACTION: Next meeting 2021-09-23, then recurring 2nd and 4th Thursday of month.


### Commitments and Interests
* SC: An optional call for panel members to declare any commitments or interests. This is optional and informal at this time. Will revisit when actual work items are taken up.
* JB: Spec Review / Use Cases
* SC: Editor, application implementation
* eP: Spec review, some TS client impl, exploration of Fetch ReadableStream option
* AC: Implementation, Spec review
* AA: TS Client Implementation


### Issue labels
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/labels
* SC: Use a common set of labels. Borrow from other panels. For example, mark issue as timed out if there is no response.
* AC: Can only apply labels is user has write access. Who has write access?
* SC: Expect everyone in panel can assign labels.
* JB: Give users `Maintain` access. Have done this for this panel.
* SC: Add new members as they join the panel.


### Assignment of relevant (existing) issues to the Notifications Panel
* SC: Propose issues that can be copied, moved, or referenced that's within the scope of the panel.
* Ruben Verborgh suggests all of https://github.com/solid/specification/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22topic%3A+events+and+notifications%22, especially the ones he made for that purpose: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22topic%3A+events+and+notifications%22+author%3ARubenVerborgh
* SC: How to action this? Editors can do this move.
* KH: Agreement on collecting notifications issues in this panel?
* JB: +1
* AC: +1

ACTION: Editors Team to review issues for copy/move.


### Secure Web Sockets Next Steps
* SC: Pre-panel meeting: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-09-09.md#issues-take-up-existing-issues
See also PR: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/3
* AC: Proposal designed to kick off discussion. Focuses on websockets, but allows support of other protocols.
* AC: What is the process now? Merge and iterate, making it clear it is not approved by panel. Or iterate on PR?
* eP: +1 to merge.
* JB: +1 merge and create issues
* AC: Statement at top of proposal.
* SC: Issue labelled `Protocol` and `Proposal`.
* SC: Need to allow appropriate time for responses. End of this week?
* eP: Can see some elements that would require more time. Better to have discussions in issues rather than PR.
* AC: Sooner we can merge, it will be easier to follow threads in the conversation.
* SC: +1 to merge.
* SC: Hoping to get TimBL's input quickly.
* SC: Suggest that technical discussions are held off pending merge.

PROPOSAL: The notifications-panel works on the delivery of Secure Web Sockets by yyyy-mm-dd.

* SC: When can we complete?
* JB: +1 Q4
* eP: Will each subscription type be defined in separate documents?
* AC: Separate docs: Allows them to involve independently, but may make it harder for implementers to understand the whole picture. But having all in one doc is not sustainable. Maybe minimal set in single doc?
* JB: +1 document per type.
* eP: +1 on dedicated document per type, required types can be defined in one place and reference type spec.
* AC: +1 on dedicated document per type
* KH: +1 wait on timing until PR is merged.
* JB: +1 on waiting on timing until PR is merged.
* SC: +1

PROPOSAL: Above and implementations follow-up by yyyy-mm-dd.

ACTION: Revisit timing/implementations in follow up meeting after PR merge.


### Use Cases and Requirements
* SC: UCR document that can aim to cover potential work items within the scope of panel's charter. (Agree that this is the first step for the panel.)
* JB: +1 on (reasonable) UCR
* SC: How do we come up with the Use Cases? Create uc-survey.
* JB: Should UCR be time-boxed? Better to get the majority of UCRs rather than having them perfect. In other panel, quickly knew the major UCRs.
* eP: Survey once UCR gets more stable?
* KH: +1
* SC: UC PR should include some indication of intention that it will be implemented.
* AC: "intention to implement" is an intention, not a contract.
* SC: Good to have deadlines for UCR doc and survey doc.
* SC: Q4 at the latest (preferrably end of Oct or Nov).
* JB: Would prefer earlier date on UCR. 4 weeks from today?
* AC: Some Use Cases already in proposal.
* SC: One in panel repo, and sure there are others.
* KH: Who is leading the UCR doc work?
* JB: Use a document format/template used by the Authorization panel? https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/
* AC: Similar question as for proposal doc. Used Markdown as it is simple. bikeshed is also used in AuthN panel
* SC: Would be good if they are machine readable and the docs includes IDs to be used by the Conformance Test Harness.
* SC: Keep UC and R descriptions simple/concise.

PROPOSAL: Create UCR document and UC Survey document.
* SC: +1 intent
* AC: +1 "intention to implement" is an intention, not a contract
* eP: +1 given we do UCR first, then Survey

PROPOSAL: Deliver UCR by 2021-10-28.
* SC: +1
* eP: +1
* AC: +1

ACTION: Revisit UCR/Survey timing in next meeting.
