# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2021-10-28T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Final


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Aaron Coburn
* [Kevin Howard](https://khoward.inrupt.net/profile/card#me)
* [Ruben Dedecker](https://pod.rubendedecker.be/profile/card#me)
* [Jackson Morgan](https://jackson.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* elf Pavlik
* Rahul Gupta
* [Ted Thibodeau](http://github.com/TallTed)
* [Patrick Hochstenbach](https://hochstenbach.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* Pete Edwards

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Aaron Coburn
* Sarven Capadisli


### Introductions
* Patrick: phd @ ghent, working on project with linked notifications. Happy to learn more about this panel
* JM: first time at notifications mtg to submit proposal for webhooks
* RD: working on solid tooling @ ghent. Working on implementing this specification in the community solid server

---

## Topics

### Updated Schedule
* SC: Daylight savings...
* KH: should not affect these meetings given the timing of the changes

### Notifications Protocol

#### Notifications Protocol Repository
* SC: One of the ACTION from https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-10-14.md#notifications-protocol-repository was to create `solid/solid-notifications` however that's already in use. Created `solid/notifications`. If anyone prefers a different name, please say so. Otherwise, this action can be marked as completed.
* SC: The other ACTION was to move relevant issues to the new repository. Completed. Also announced on Gitter chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel?at=61794e8d29ddcd02934927ae

* AC: with this new repo, we have this Protocl, there are other portions of notifications. those could be added to that new repo, alternatively those extensions could be in separate repos. My understating is that both options are still possible.

* SC: correct, that can be discussed. There are +1 in the jitsi chat.

#### Notifications Protocol
* SC: Created the Notifications Protocol specification in HTML in https://github.com/solid/notifications . It is published and publicly accessible from https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol
* ...: about 99% the same as the original proposal. All requirements the same and can be addressed on a case-by-case basis. Feedback welcome.
* RG: would it be more suitable to name it notification-protocol?
* SC: we do see that repo including the data model as well, including extensions. it didn't seem like we needed separate repos for each document
* eP: "extensions" are maybe not the right terminology. "subscription type" would be better
* SC: the idea is that the repo would include all of those documents
* SC: no objections noted to the `solid/notifications` repo name

### Webhooks Proposal
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/29

* SC: If @jaxoncreed is present, they can have the mic. Feedback from the others can follow.
* SC: I prefer to hold off any decisions until Jackson is here.
* JM: WebHooks proposal (sharing screen with [PR](https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/29)) fits into existing protocol
* ...: an alternative to WebSocket but for server-to-server notifications
* ...: want server endpoint called when notification arrives
* ...: use cases overlap with protocol spec document, but two new cases to highlight
* ...: 1. verifying requests to subscribing server (defined as the server that subscribes). This endpoint would be open to the Internet. it will need to verify that the request comes from the Pod
* ...: 2. unsubscribe feature. Unlike WebSockets, it's hard to unusbscribe after a subscription has been initiated
* ...: creates a keypair in Pod for use with verification
* ...: [flow diagram](https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/29/files?short_path=e683840#diff-e6838404aaf61c29d658c8d50f6f318e82262234860d6f16569f003f57ddf28c) includes several actors:
* ...: * subscribing server
* ...: * gateway api
* ...: * auth server
* ...: * solid metadata resource
* ...: * subscription api
* ...: * topic resource
* ...: * Pod JWKS
* ...: * unsubscription endpoint
* ...: Discovery of the metadata resource works the same as with WS
* ...: Every Pod will have a .well-known resource. This will have a notifications endpoint. The request goes there to find how notifications are configured
* ...: A JWKS endpoint is added as a feature of the server in the metadata resource
* ...: A request to the gateway API with a request body indicated the type of subscription, including features such as state/rate.
* ...: `webhook-auth` is new and allows one to verify subscriptions
* ...: if the server is compatible, then a response is returned
* ...: (note: error conditions need more clarification)
* ...: the successful response includes values about endpoint and features
* ...: The subscription request includes a DPoP-bound token and proof (as per normal Solid authN: see Solid-OIDC)
* ...: The subscription request identifies the topic (pod resource) and target (the webhook) values
* ...: other properties include state, expiration values
* ...: Then the Pod interacts with the authZ server: fetch authZ server metadata
* ...: generate subscription, save to some storage on pod
* ...: respond to subscribing server with defined data
* ...: add an `unsubscribe_endpoint` which can be used to unsubscribe from these notifications
* ...: now the subscription is set up, waiting for changes (update/delete)
* ...: when that happens, a notification is sent to the webhook
* ...: the Pod sends a message to the endpoint with an authorization token, signed by the key for the pod
* ...: the details of this particular point is still under discussion
* ...: The activity data will follow the data model from the parent specification
* ...: The unsubscribe endpoint is included in each delivered message
* ...: value of the authZ token is similar to a DPoP proof. It contains an `htu` and `htm` (always POST). The issuer is the Pod itself, signed by the Pod's private key
* ...: once the subscribing server receives a request, there is a verification step to find the .well-known endpoint. The jwks_uri endpoint validated as per OAuth 2.0
* ...: In order to unsubscribe, just send a DELETE request to the unsubscribe endpoint
* ...: Normative language (summary): WebHook auth is a separate feature, not required to support this WebHook feature.
* ...: Two kinds of notifications: update and delete
* ...: must have an unsubscribe_endpoint and target in the data
* ...: Considerations
* ...: * DDoS: ability to set up lots of webhooks on a Pod resulting in lots of requests coming from Pods (i.e., command/control)
* ...: * Assumes a base domain is interchangeable
* ...: * We may want to define the resource delta
* ...: (unclear what goes in the `object` field)
* eP: this is great and needed for interop panel use cases
* ...: I have multiple questions and suggestions
* ...: we should pick the repo where this document goes and iterate soon
* AC: +1 on moving this out of PR and iterate on the document. Question about authZ server: probably better for the stage where we iterate to looking at things. Because the authZ server is not necessarily and authz server (could be an identity server). Better when we get to the point of iterating on the document itself.
* KH: Question about step 10. `object` contains a reference to the resource that was update. Will it also contain the diff?
* JM: it is a little unclear what goes into that object field
* ...: it would be nice to see the delta or the entire document
* ...: less of a webhook issue and more of a general protocol question
* AC: All of this comes from W3C AS spec. https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-core/#object defines it. because this is an RDF based model =, it can be extended. we are trying to define what that baseline is. with AS, we have the basic data structures. if you want to put additional info, that can be extended.. as with any JSON-LD object.
* RG: already discussed this in the gitter chat, there are examples of the content of the notification.
* ...: there are some details that still need to be decided
* SC: Can you separate the Normative Requirements in WebHookSubscriptionType from the NRs in Notifications Protocol?
* JM: I believe there isn't overlap in the NRs, but I will go through these again.
* SC: Please add the use cases to the stand-alone UCR document
* SC: Discovery of Solid Server Metadata Resource is to be resolved by Solid Protocol. Link-based discovery is likely the direction this will go. Please be aware that .well-known is at risk. Specs here will be updated as that gets resolved at the Solid Protocol level
* SC: Do you see authn tied to Solid OIDC? (Notifications Protocol defers to Solid Protocol) - is this something you can decouple wherever necessary?
* JM: in principle, one can use any auth mechanism, but there is NR tying this to Solid-OIDC. The only point where authN is required is in the establishment of a subscription
* SC: we should decide what to do with the PR. It would be nice to factor in some of these comments into the PR before merged.
* ...: once merged, should this document be moved into the solid/notifications repository?
* ...: assume that @JM will continue to edit/author this document
* ...: and include an HTML document to be included in the solid/notification repo
* PE: one benefit of an HTML+RDFa version is that we can identify requirements and enrich reports in the test harness. Protocol, WAC, Solid Notifications are in HTML+RDFa. Essential for the test harness to link back to the HTML version of the spec. See also https://github.com/solid/specification-tests#specification-annotations
