# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2021-09-23T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel

## Present

* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Kevin Howard](https://khoward.inrupt.net/profile/card#me)
* Aaron Coburn
* Angel Araya
* Jamie Fiedler
* elf Pavlik

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts

* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Use panel chat and repository. Queue in call to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct

* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribe Selection

* Aaron Coburn

---

### Minutes Process

* SC: After the meeting, minutes are PR'd then merged. Anyone can PR for minor changes. Propose agenda topic for issues with the minutes.
* SC: Last week's meeting minutes have already been pushed to repo
* SC: Any objections to minutes can be raised

### Created Minutes Template

URL: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/solid/notifications-panel/main/meetings/template.md

### Updated Participation

URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel#participation

### Editors Team to review issues for copy/move

URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/4

SC: appears to be not possible to assign a GH Group, so will likely assign individuals

### Initial Secure Web Sockets proposal

URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/3

* KH: Can this be merged?
* SC: Should be OK to merge as it is a work item.
* SC: There have been no objections. We need an author/editor and statements of "intent to implement"
* AC: Tim requested changes, but does that block the PR or can we create issues based on the topics raised

PROPOSAL: merge now and create issues related to the topics raised

* eP: +1
* KH: +1
* AC: +1

ACTION: KH will create issues based on outstanding comments. SC will then merge PR.

### Secure Web Sockets timing and implementations

* SC: Call for contributors.
* eP: Is WebSockets uni-directional? Is interested in streaming fetch
* AC: Proposal for WS is uni-directional; streaming-fetch would/should fit well in the model.
* SC: Call for implementers.
* AC: We will implement it, can't commit to time frame yet. Will agree to co-edit
* SC: Will implement, will also agree to co-edit (maybe not author)
* SC: What suggestions are there for the timeframe for this. End of October was discussed. End of November should be reasonable for ~FPWD.
* AC: I can make it work, especially with some assistance
* SC: We can co-pilot
* KH: Do we need to reach out to the other Solid server implementors?
* SC: Perhaps that is in reference to those who are not engaged in the panel? Once we have a ~CR, we will definitely reach out to them.
* eP: What does "deliver FPWD by X" mean? What are the consequences of not delivering?
* SC: This is an intention
* eP: Perhaps the proposal could be to give the work item priority?
* SC: This is set 1 month before the actual panel milestone date.
* KH: Nov 25 is Thanksgiving in US
* SC: Proposal revised to 11/11
* AC: Prefer end of November. Though would not be able to attend meeting on Nov 25
* SC: Re-revise proposal to Nov 25
* AC: Is the expectation that an implementation be open source?
* SC: Open source is not a requirement. One or more open source implementations should be available
* SC: Let's follow-up on the implementations date in next meeting.
* eP: I would also like to make progress on WebSub or Linked Data Notifications. I could also pick up responsibility. There was a discussion last week to have those be in separate documents. Would those be in separate documents?
* AC: Prefer separate documents. Deciding on logistical matters (e.g., format and location). No strong opinion at present.
* SC: +1 Aim for small specs as much as possible.
* eP: +1 separate documents
* AC: +1 on separate documents

PROPOSAL: Deliver FPWD Secure Web Sockets spec by 2021-11-25.

AC: +1
SC: +1
eP: 0, I don't plan to act as editor of WS sub type so not up to me

PROPOSAL: Implementations by yyyy-mm-dd.

ACTION: Add implementation date to next meeting's topic

ACTION: Discuss open/closed source implementation expectations

### Created issues for UCR and UC Survey documents

URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/5
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/6

* SC: Call for contributors.
* SC: We need authors and editors for the use case document
* SC: We will need a survey document so that we understand what will be implemented and what is prioritized.
* SC: We need timings on both UCR and UC documents
* eP: I can start making Pull requests, especially for what is currently used by the interop panel. Should I start a new document or will someone else create that?
* SC: It would be good to acnowledge the existing use cases in [issue 1](https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/1). Perhaps start by creating issues for use cases -- possibly one issue per use case, but it doesn't need to be so granular. For example see the one liner UCs in https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/1
* eP: OK, start with issues and then convert those into a document
* eP: It would be good to clarify this flow early, since it can be cumbersome to create an issue and then copy/paste into a document.
* SC: The Authorization use cases are very complicated to digest. One-sentence use cases tend to be more approachable. Once we have the documents, we can expand on them properly
* SC: So please do start by creating issues. Be sure not to create duplicates
* SC: There is a label that can be used, and everyone in the panel can perform that step
* SC: Once a UC document is merged, a survey document should be prepared

### UCR and UC Survey documents timing

* SC: Decision from https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-09-16.md "Deliver UCR by 2021-10-28" is marked as a ~FPWD milestone on GitHub.
* SC: by end of year (2021), we will have UCR and UC survey documents.

