# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-03-31T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* elf Pavlik
* [Christoph Braun](https://github.com/uvdsl/)
* Rahul Gupta
* Aaron Coburn

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Aaron Coburn
* elf Pavlik

### Introductions
* name: text


---

## Topics


### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback going forward. Links to servers/applications welcome.

* AC: No feedback

### Registries, Directory, Index for Subscription types
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-03-30.md#registries

* SC: Continued from last week...
* SC: My take: anything beyond updating the github README at this point? We only need to acknowledge/list whatever comes up. The panel is not a barrier to what gets to be a subscription type. If a type is put into the current notification ns, that's fine.. but it may also be published elsewhere.
* SC: For example: the LDP vocabulary was under control of the LDP WG. That group closed. Later, a particular property was added to the LDP namespace. A spec was shown, etc. I imagine a similar situation here.
* SC: This is also mentioned in the Solid Process: https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/README.md#vocabulary-management if you can show that something may be added to a vocabulary to include new subscription types
* SC: The panel keeps track of certain types, but this doesn't prevent someone from publishing those types elsewhere
* SC: In the wild there may be different types
* SC: I would expect a very light process around this
* SC: This would initially include the types produced by this panel
* RG: Would it be helpful to provide guidance on how one would create and publish new types?
* SC: Yes, that would be very helpful


ACTION: RG will write some text (PR) to include this guidance


### Publication of Notifications Protocol ~FPWD
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-03-17.md#publication-of-notifications-protocol-fpwd

* SC: About versioning: https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2022-03-30.md#add-solid-oidc-draft-specification-and-primer-to-solid-project
* SC: will borrow the W3C terminology and mix with semver.
* SC: The suggestion is to add a version number e.g., 1.0-FPWD.
* AC: Just to clarify. Let's say we change it to say 1.0-FPWD. If next week decide to change something, how do we version it? When it goes from FPWD into CR, saying 1.0 now is misleading. We also have dated versions working as snapshot with stable URL. One can also refer to that snapshot.
* eP: I don't think it's 1.0. I think we call it 0.1-FPWD. This would be equivalent to a working draft
* eP: would the FPWD be part of the URL or in the text? https://www.w3.org/2021/Process-20211102/#maturity-levels
* SC: in the text as a "status"
* SC: W3C uses `/TR/{shortname}-{yyyymmdd}` or `/TR/{yyyy}/{shortname}-{yyyymmdd}`
* SC: Would like alignment across specs
* SC: then, for a new version (e.g., 0.2 or 0.3) a new PR can be made to the /TR/ section
* SC: for early versions, adequate implementation experience
* AC: Having clear guidance on this would be useful
* SC: Also need uniformity (e.g., WAC)
* RG: What are the other solid groups doing? Is there consensus on the process?
* SC: Rough consensus on one group
* RG: What have other panels done in the past
* SC/AC: Solid-OIDC is the first
* SC: Solid is a little different because it is run in a Community Group but also run as part of the Solid Project
* SC: Is the 1.0-{W3C-Status} out of the question?
* eP: The versioning numbers are important. We shouldn't say 1.0-anything until this is CR-equivalent. Until that, I would prefer to use 0.x (0.1, 0.5, 0.15)
* AC: Strong +1 to that. As long as they are drafts they should be 0.x
* AC: Is it possible to add more structure to the conversation to move it along. What do we need to do in this panel to get those documents the the point where they can be submitted to solidproject.org/TR/
* SC: There is a contributing guide in the works. There is a section on publishing a technical report
* SC: For this panel, it is not so different from the way this worked for Solid-OIDC
* SC: To publish, we need to update the current document as the editor's draft. We need to create a snapshot and PR to the specification repo
* AC: Who will do this work, what's the timeframe, timeframe for review and next steps?

ACTION: SC will make PR to solid/specification repo for notification protocol
ACTION: SC will make PR to solid/specification repo for websocket subscription type

* AC: I think it would be easier for SC to also make PR for WebSockets subscription type.
* SC: Would anyone be upset if the PR went out tomorrow or weekend
* SC: What is the versioning for use with that PR?
* AC: I'm big fan of Github actions to automate those things. I took Solid-OIDC from `gh-pages` and made PR to solid/specifications repo. It was a lot of work with changing URLs, status etc. I got it wrong first time, than found another thing that I missed. I took an hour or two plus all the fixing of mistakes. The whole process was very error prone. I wanted to automate it and avoid all those errors. The fact that we use bikeshed in Solid-OIDC made it much easier. I made bunch of `sed` commands, based on that I can run bikeshed over the changed text. Those actions get executed based on github tags with specific pattern. One will create cg-draft another one cg-final. Everything else is pretty much the same. In context of using bikeshed I just change 2-3 URLs. In the context of current specifications we will need to be very careful since we will be replacing a ton of URLs. All full URLs will have to be rewritten. You also need to be careful for snapshot including dates in URLs.
* AC: https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/#releasing-a-new-solid-oidc-final-report
* AC: https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/blob/main/.github/workflows/tr-draft-config.yml
* AC: What we have is pretty good, I have even better version on my local machine. I would like to be able to point to published version but it doesn't exist yet. I need to wait for PR to specification repo to be merged.
* SC: Went through this process for the protocol and wac spec. If you look at the URLs are used, the URL patterns are such that the base URL is only 8 times, maybe 4 required
* SC: this template is all using relative URLs
* SC: When working with HTML documents, XSLT might be more appropriate
* SC: If we start with a version that is not acceptable, then we will need to deal with that.
* SC: I expect that those with a strong view will show up.
* SC: I would like the versions to be uniform
* RG: Are these version numbers independent of the state of the document? What is wrong with a 15.0-TR?
* SC: Nothing in particular
* SC: The group wants to communicate in terms of W3C statuses
* AC: If we submit PR tomorrow with 1.0-fpwd and next week we decide to change something significant are we ok with still having it 1.0-fpwd? If we are able to communicate that today is 0.1 and tomorrow 0.2 we need to start below 1.0. I'm fine either way just there are implications to both.
* SC: In this case, it would be 1.0-WD.1, 1.0-WD.2, etc. Then, a 1.0-CR
* RG: What I was thinking was a 1.0-FPWD, then 2.0-WD
* SC: That is even more confusing
* SC: Typically the process is multiple working drafts, then a CR and then a REC
* AC: There are 2 patterns that I've seen, one in IETF other in W3C. In IETF the url says draft 01, 02, 03. Once it moves out of draft it gets stable url which removes draft. In W3C in ED it can change every day. In FPWD it gets some level of stability. When it says 1.0 WD it signals that this is a Proposal for 1.0. DID 1.0 specification is still a proposal (CR) and it haven't made it to (REC) yet. We need to make sure to communicate that this is still proposal.
* SC: This is all part of a process toward a particular version (e.g., 1.0)
* SC: Scratchpad:
```
https://solidproject.org/TR/nopr
  Document Status: 1.0-WD

https://solidproject.org/TR/2022/nopr-2022-03-31
  Document Status: 1.0-FPWD or 0.1-WD

https://solidproject.org/TR/2022/nopr-2022-04-30
  Document Status: 1.0-WD.1 or 0.2-WD

https://solidproject.org/TR/2022/nopr-2022-05-31
  Document Status: 1.0-WD.2 or 0.3-WD

https://solidproject.org/TR/2022/nopr-2022-06-30
  Document Status: 1.0-CR or 0.8-CR

https://solidproject.org/TR/2022/nopr-2022-07-31
  Document Status: 1.0-PR or 0.12-PR

https://solidproject.org/TR/2022/nopr-2022-08-30
  Document Status: 1.0
```
