# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-03-24T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Aaron Coburn
* Rahul Gupta
* elf Pavlik
* Jackson Morgan
* [Christoph Braun](https://github.com/uvdsl)
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven


### Introductions
* Christoph: 1st year PHD student at KIT, Germany. Digital identity on the web, transparency, verifiability of data. i like to code. PWA. I noticed Solid doesn't come with push notifications.. so why not -> did a demo, submitted to a conference and it got accepted and curious to know what you all think about it.


---

## Topics


### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback going forward. Links to servers/applications welcome.


### WebPush Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/35

* SC: See also https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel?at=623c36d1c435002500078919
* eP: https://github.com/uvdsl/solid-web-push/
* CB: We can start with the components. It is a demo, not a production level thing. Components are a Solid pod, i.e., a standard NSS. Then I thought about how to write a module / server-side script to provide a push notification functionality. The other component is a consuming web app. When an notification arrives at my inbox, I'd like to get a push notification on my browser.
* eP: Noticed a great diagram/documentation. Would you like to share your screen / it could be helpful.
* SC: CB shares screen.
* CB: [Demo website](https://uvdsl.solid.aifb.kit.edu/conf/2022/icwe/demo) / linked in the issue... have a live demo for PWA. We have a notification scheme in order to receive notifications from updates on summary sources.. Discovery suitable notification scheme. PWA subscribes to browser's messaging service and sends a sub to WebPush service. WebPush service is server-side script. It has an inbox where the subscriptions are `as:Follows`/`as:Undo`. In the subscription there is an `as:object` on updates.
* CB: Using Turtle but any RDF would do.
* eP: Awesome. I haven't developed PWA.. could you explain how keys are used.
* CB: vapidPublicKey from the service. The keys in the Follow and subscription object are generated on the client side and transmitted to the service and used for message encryption. Each message encrypted using these keys.. We don't have to worry about privacy or whatever
* JM: Do you see it being extended to ??? (firebase messaging service, apple messaging) global push notifications perhaps better to provide a service side component to implement.
* CB: Not familiar with native mobile notifications. If you can imagine some similar scheme for native messages but I can't say how easy it would be to adopt that.
* SC: Where do yo use this work going? Are you interested on the research level or you would see it standardized as other subscription type? Are you looking for feedback?
* CB: Currently proposed protocol is server-server. But I'm client-only person at the moment so all my apps don't have a service side component and was thinking about how another messaging scheme in addition to the current proposed ones can make the protocol more rounded. Perhaps it is just niche that I'm filling and would like to discuss. It would be more on a practical and rather on a research level.
* eP: I don't quite understand why you don't think current sub types are focused on server-side clients? I think they are fit to use in the Web browser. Some of them like WebHook/LDN are perhaps more server oriented.
* CB: I agree to some extent, but another thought: I wanted my app to be cool and have the new features / bells and whistles. I didn't see how I could write an Web app when the message could be delivered when the app is closed.
* eP: Good clarification. Client on the background for the device. For limited connectivity / offline mode / suspended / service workers we can look at. Mobile apps are definitely important.
* SC: I think this can work along side existing sub types. Treating endpoint as container is another topic we can get to in the moment.
* JM: The way the push notification shows up is that the solid pod will say that it sent a message rather than the app what has created that push notification. The UX is slightly different than what exists for regular apps. Do you see that as a positive?
* CB: i think i know where you 're coming from but if you look at the screenshots at the demo website, the app is the Solid PWA which the notification also says. But what's shown to the user (as the content) can be customisable. The message could be any message that the app developer would like to display when the push notification is delivered. The UX showing which notification to show is up to the developer.
* JM: Is there a way to customise that in a dynamic way.
* CB: Yes. Pod sends a message / in my demo, hey the inbox or resource has been updated. the app / service worker can process that message and decide what to display to the user. This is related to Pavlik's question on what happens to the app in the background. Chrome requires the app to display a message when in background.
* eP: re popping up notification, that means when the notification arrives it needs to be shown to the user - is that right?
* CB: when the app is on the foreground, this does not apply. can silently process push notifications. viewing the inbox itself/deleting/getting a new message, no notifications will show but the app is still updated. When the app is closed, the app has to display a notification when the push comes from the pod.
* eP: UX is tricky but manageable. The caveat of one subscription / typing the app to one pod, can't subscribe to multiple pods? I know discussed other ways of handling that. How do you see handling multiple storages / graphs.. how do you see those being handled?
* CB: Apart from what's written, I don't know. ATM, my current view, I have one pod - granted there can be more - but one app is most of the time putting stuff into one storage. I would argue that, you subscribe to one web push to one pod and as an app developer and treat that as web push proxy so to speak. If you want to have notifications on other resources, you can use other notification schemes e,g. LDN, to get updates on other resources which can be proxies with web push. I haven't tried that but that can be something to look into. Maybe I'm not familiar enough with service workers but perhaps there is a workaround.
* eP: Many devs want to make a PWA probably don't want to make a server side component to push custom messages. it could be an opportunity to have a solid push service that's associated to a end-user, this service can subscribe to any number of solid storage servers, you would not be limited to single storage but at the same time app devs don't have develop their own server.
* CB: any other resources?
* SC: You can look at the Notifications Protocol spec. The group can look at if it can be turned into a work item and we can follow it into a proposal.

PROPOSAL: Add Solid WebPush as work item?

* eP: +1
* AC: +1
* RG: +1
* SC: +1
* CB: +1
* JM: +1
* TT: +0

ACTION: CB to propose a ED for Solid WebPush (and look into related issues).

* SC: we can figure out where this spec fits exactly

### Publication of Notifications Protocol ~FPWD
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-03-17.md#publication-of-notifications-protocol-fpwd

* SC: Few items that are left before ED => FPWD.

* SC: We have the following remaining actions that we can take up ad-hoc as subtopics (if necessary):
  * AC publish an index of notification types and link protocol document to that
  * AC and SC will look into notification discovery
  * SC container definition / POST re Protocol
  * eP add inline issues to webhooks spec
  * AC and SC add inline issues for other documents (protocol, WebSocket, LDN, EventSource)

* AC: "publish an index of notification types...", I'm working on that. I'll have a PR today or tomorrow
* eP: In Streaming HTT sub type. I put the Container issue as an inline issue. Mention in spec but resolve later.
* SC: From our perspective is FPWD, but try to move it into CR equivalent. Hopefully but the end of April.
* RG: Is there a document where you're hashing these things?
* SC: Hashing?
* RG: What's being discussed.
* eP: At GitHub https://github.com/solid/notifications#technical-reports
* RG: ~FPWD would be single document?
* AC: There are a number of documents. Protocol, Subscription types, Registries,.. All of those will be linked from GH. In addition, people may define other docs - because open ecosystem.

### Update to WebHooks

URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/51

* JM: Took the suggestion from last meeting and updated the WebHooks to follow the current authn scheme for Solid OIDC. Re: using DPOP for authn is overkill — that isn't necessarily the case for WebHooks because client is the solid pod.. or the server that is trusted by the pod. There should be more thought put into the authn rather than slapping DPOP. Any more talk on this for Solid Notifications... so it can be talked inside of authentication-panel. If there are general thoughts on those comments, it'd be cool to hear them.
* eP: Propose merging that PR. For me most of those comments can be tracked as different issues.
* AC: question about the defined IRI for type of notification. I'm wondering about changing the type are we continuing to support the older type or something brand new. If new, we should clean up the existing references.
* CM: Main purpose is to indicate something new. We don't want to confuse older names.
* AC: Either way is fine. Fundamentally it is quasi-public-WD, so people should be aware things can change. As editor, feel free to do as you like. IMO, I wouldn't worry about changing the type.
* SC: +1 to using only one.
* eP: Do you want to keep one unofficial floating in the ecosystem?
* CM: I don't care about keeping references to the old one. If it makes sense to keep as 2021, that's fine.

ACTION: CM will update references from 2022 to 2021.


### Proposal to remove mention of WebSub from Notifications Protocol

* SC: I think we should remove the mention of WebSub from the Notifications Protocol and consider renaming "topic" — don't have any ties to WebSub, both to minimise confusion and to consider using a term that may be more appropriate in context of Solid/LinkedData...  e.g., `notify:object` (along the lines of `as:object`).
* eP: They can be separate issues. We should mention WebSub as one of most relevant existing specs. Possibly explaining why it can't be just used directly by Solid.
* SC: Any objection?

ACTION: SC to create PRs to update WebSub mention and propose alternative for `topic`.

* AC: No objection on WebSub. Maybe consider moving from normative to informative reference because it is relevant. I don't want to bikeshed on 'topic' but I find it more intuitive than 'object'.
* TT: `focus`?


### Registries
* AC: If there is time at the end, I'd like to ask Ted a question about "Registries". I believe he has some experience with this in the context of VCs. Other communities have done this and found challenges. I'd like to avoid making mistakes and ask Ted if he can provide any suggestion.. or put it another time.
* TT: Don't. Registry management is itself a large project. W3C hasn't figured it out yet. IANA sort of handles it okay. There are always questions of time required to manage things, how to handle regionally offensive and/or trademarked terminology, etc. Registries are appealing as a seemingly simple extension mechanism, but there is an awful lot of disclaimer associated with them when anything other than a simple self-service "add your extension to this list; let the user beware of and take responsibility for any potential issues with using it" set up.
* AC: Adding as much disclaimer about that is a good thing to be aware of. Also, between now and creating a full version -- what we have produced doesn't step on those landmines.

* SC: Anything beyond updating the github README at this point?
