# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-01-13T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Draft

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Kevin Howard](https://khoward.inrupt.net/profile/card#me)
* Rahul Gupta
* Aaron Coburn
* elf Pavlik
* Jackson Morgan
* Jamie Fiedler
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Kevin Howard

---

## Topics

### Consideration for Weekly Meetings
* SC: Follows https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel?at=61d5725e46529077f56c360a
* SC: How does everyone feel about changing to weekly meetings to compensate for cancellations (and having to postpone to next scheduled meeting)?
* SC: Noting that four people are so far in favour so far.
* +1 KH
* +1 eP
* +1 AC
* +1 RG
* +1 SC
* AC: Have weekly meetings but cancel if they conflict with Solid World or there is nothing on the agenda.
* Approved.

ACTION: AC to make PR to the panel repo outlining revised schedule.


### Replace separate gateway endpoint with RDF-based protocol discovery
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/29

* AC: General consensus at last meeting that types should be moved into their own repo.
* AC: Endpoint is currently defined as JSON API and client interacts with it to determine suitable features. During implementation, came to conclusion all could be accomplished with simple static RDF document that defines features. Doc is easier to write/maintain than an endpoint.
* eP: re: static vs. request parameters independent. Does have to be static doc?
* AC: Does not have to be static. Just an RDF doc that fully describes endpoint.
* RG: Does every server define its own RDF doc?
* AC: Yes. Will follow Solid Protocol v1.0.
* RG: Does each server implementer write from scratch?
* AC: Implementation specific. May fill in template with features that are supported.

* AC: Please review/comment on PR. Would like to merge next week.

### Define EventSourceSubscription2021 type for Solid Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/27

* AC: Decided last month to pull out subscription types into own doc. Will make protocol doc to be smaller. For example, WebHooks.
* AC: This PR is specifically for Event Source.
* eP: Terminology: What is difference between subscription API and subscription endpoint?
* AC: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/30 Relates to conversation with Ruben Verborgh regarding moving endpoint terminology. Will be important to revisit docs regarding terminology - endpoint vs API.
* eP: Use subscription API and notification API?
* TT: Reason for moving away from endpoint? The 2 terms do not seem interchangeable.
* AC: Endpoint is just a URL that does not describe itself. Need self-description to give richer way of interaction.
* TT: When dereferencing, it is an endpoint. Subscription request is being made to an endpoint.
* AC: Suggestion. Continue discussion in https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/30
* eP: Distinguish between subscription API and notification API.
* AC: Trying to avoid duplicating subscription descriptions. All should refer to one place.
* AC: Can everyone review PR. Would like to move forward on merging.

ACTION: Review how authentication is described in Solid Protocol doc, with regards authentication and capability URLs.


### Define WebSocketSubscription2021 type for Solid Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/28

* SC: Felt state of document is fine. Just a few things to clarify. We have subscription types and subprotocols. What happens if subscription is not specified by the client?
* AC: Reviewed WebSocket PR. If server does not received any subprotocol, could use a default. If multiple subprotocols are requested, server can return one of them, but cannot return a different one. Can clarify.
* SC: OK to merge.



### Remove EventSource and WebSocket section from Notifications Protocol?

* AC: Makes sense to remove as much from Protocol and refer to sub documents.
* eP: +1
* KH: +1
* SC: +1
* SC: How do we organise these documents?
* eP: Added StreamingHTTPSubscription2021 subscription type: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/31
* RG: Keep abstract in Protocol and implementation in sub documents?
* AC: Yes.
* SC: Had action item for LDNSubscription2021. Hope to have ready for next meeting.
* AC: Seems like general agreement.

ACTION: AC to PR updates to documents.


### Subscription Type Registries
* SC: At some point Notifications Protocol will not be updated regularly, however, (new) subscription types should be discoverable.
* SC: Have Notifications protocol link to a SubscriptionType Registries where it list and links to current subscription types, and then update the registry document when new types are made available? Similar to did-core and did-spec-registries... or is there a simpler/better solution? Perhaps unnecessary?
* SC: AFAICT, the registries will not require a different process than our current process for advancing specs.
* AC: A registry can be helpful, but don't want to make it a requirement. Should be possible to created extension without going through a formal process.
* eP: Do we map subscription types to URLs? May want to so we don't get conflicting types.
* AC: They are URLs as they are defined in the JSON-LD context.

ACTION: AC: Make sure full URLs of subscription type are included in each subdocument.

* SC: Re: Registry proccess. Main problem is the discovery. How do we publicise the subscription types? How do we define the requirement for how to list subscription type? OK with removing bureaucratic process.
* eP: In favour of registry of subscription types. Would help spec age better. Link to registry.
    * KH: +1


### Subscription Types Extension
URL: https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol#subscription-types-extension

* SC: Subscription type extension is intended to outline the core requirements for existing or new subscription types.
* SC: Would this be the minimal required?
* SC: If merged it, the registry would be self-maintained.
* eP: In favour of low-process. Link to open issues on that sub-type.
* SC: What other potential processes would satisfy this? How would subscription types be discoverable?
* AC: +1 on proposed approach. This is fine until if/when better approach is determined in the future.

### Remove Use Cases from Notifications Protocol
* AC: Original approach was to have a single monlithic doc. This is about moving UCs into independent UCs document.
* SC: Briefly mention UCs in Introduction
* SC: Refer to UCR
* SC: Mostly editorial thing.
* SC: +1
* KH: +1
* AC: +1
* eP: +1
* RG: Will it be in the same repo?
* AC: Not at the moment, but could be. The UCRs are in the panel repo, not the notification-protocol repo.

ACTION: AC - PR to update documents prior to next meeting.

* AC: Remaining items to roll over to next meeting.

### Add Solid Notification JSON-LD context
URL: https://github.com/solid/vocab/pull/62

* SC: Follows https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-12-16.md#add-solid-notification-json-ld-context
* SC: AC created the JSON-LD context. Please review.
* SC: I can follow up with TimBL and/or Editors to review + merge.
* AC: Vocab not in Turtle format.


### Solid Notifications Vocabulary
* SC: Follows https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-12-16.md#add-solid-notification-json-ld-context
* SC: We'll need to follow-up on creating the vocab: http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/notification



### Solid Notifications Protocol ~FPWD
* SC: Follows https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-12-16.md#solid-notifications-protocol-fpwd

#### Notifications Protocol Publication Date
* SC: We shouldn't wait on major work to create a ~FPWD. Keeping that in mind:
* SC: Presuming no outstanding PRs blocking ~FPWD, agree to publish 2022-01-20 or 2022-01-27...?
* SC: We can clean-up minor work as mentioned above, if Registries was approved above, should that be required before publication?
* SC: Wait to merge JSON-LD context and Vocabulary before publishing?


#### Notifications Protocol Draft URL
* SC: It should makes its way to `https://solidproject.org/TR/{shortname}` (via solid/specification repository). Not short but readable/guessable (also not that out of the ordinary, e.g., `activitystreams-core` or `-vocabulary`): `https://solidproject.org/TR/notifications-protocol`. Other suggestions?
* SC: Related: URLs of Subscription Types may need to be available in the same way. Solid Protocol will refer to both Solid Notifications Protocol and WebSocketSubscription2021 (or possibly "latest published version"?)



### CRUD Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/41
