# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-03-10T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* name

---

## Topics

### Daylight saving time changes

* SC: ...


### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback going forward. Links to servers/applications welcome. What's everyone working on or plan to work on?


### Incorporate resource-centric discovery of notifications
* SC: Intention was to allow the simple/classic version of subscribing to resource updates - which was previously used for WebSockets.

* SC: Talked with Tim and agreed that we can postpone work on the "simple" version of Secure WebSockets. It can be revisited at a later date. The panel can focus on existing work - what we have in the Editor's Draft - and bring a stable version forward to solid/specification so that it can be referenced in the next release of the Solid Protocol.


### Publication of Notifications Protocol ~FWPD
* SC: Anything major outstanding besides working out discovery/description of notification channels.
* SC: Minor editorial: A resolution from an earlier meeting was to have subscription types be listed in a directory/index/registry document and have the spec link to it. The Notifications Protocol shouldn't repeat the requirements from subscriptoin type specs in any case.
* SC: Aaron and I are looking into discovery/description. I/We will propose an update that does not depend on the FPWD release.


### Is the "Solid Notifications Protocol" spec title too broad?
* SC: The spec mainly focuses on subscription. Should "subscription" be part of the title? Or can the spec potentially cover areas besides subscription?