# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-01-20T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Final

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Aaron Coburn
* elf Pavlik
* Rahul Gupta
* Ángel Araya


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Pavlik

---

## Topics

### Replace separate gateway endpoint with RDF-based protocol discovery
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/29

* SC: No objections or outstanding concerns? Merge.
* SC: The primary purpose of this PR seems to be fulfilled. Some follow-ups for consideration:
* eP: Should be merged. Work on our workflow.. create a new issue that references the open PR, unless it's request for change.

ACTION: AC: merge ✅

#### Server accepts GET, HEAD and OPTIONS requests targeting subscription resource.
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/29#issuecomment-1009840586

* SC: Thoughts? Create issue/PR?
* SC: Issue came up with notification channels should be self describing. Currently we only require that resource to respond to POST.
* AC: It fits well with solid model. It could be moved to an issue or even someone can make PR.
* SC: We can have PR for it


### Subscription Types

* SC: Terminology has to be updated
* SC: URI for subscription type
* RG: I think naming should be 2021.1
* AC: I would object to that
* SC: I is working draft
* RG: If someone is building a client and I'm using it, and there is change in implementation side. My string search is more complicated.
* SC: I propose that we go with rough consensus
* RG: I'm ok for now
* SC: We are not going at level of versioning it at this moment. We can get back to that before publishing.
* AC: These numbers are not semantic versions, just an opaque strings. It should not be treated as versioning scheme. We can even call it with UUID, just it would be hard to process by human.
* RG: Whatever scheme you use, it should be clear what scheme is being used.

ACTION RG: create issue for naming template

* eP: `webid` can be used for authz e.g., inbox. Suggest to use same approach for WebHook. Publisher delivering the notification can authn using that id.
* AC: once we get them all merged we can find patterns and commonalities. I think webid could use better naming convention that could apply to multiple sub types. Iterative approach will be benefit all sub types.

#### Define EventSourceSubscription2021 type for Solid Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/27

* SC: No objections or outstanding concerns? Merge.


#### Define WebSocketSubscription2021 type for Solid Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/28

* SC: No objections or outstanding concerns? Merge.


#### Define StreamingHTTPSubscription2021 type for Solid Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/31

* SC: No objections or outstanding concerns? Merge.


* AC: unless someone object I'll merge all 3


ACTION: AC: merge all 3 ✅

#### Define LinkedDataNotificationsSubscription2021 type for Solid Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/32

* SC: Please review. Overview needs to be written/updated. Terminology section needs to be updated. Same goes for all subscription types.
* eP: +1. Is diagram todo or there by mistake?
* SC: Diagram is still a TODO
* SC: I would prefer wait one more week before merging


### Replace 'endpoint' with API
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/30

* eP: I'd like ot make a PR that .. I'd like to add another pattern re LDN and WebHook.
* SC: Protocol assumes that subscriber connects and waits for responses.
* AC: Sounds great

ACTION: eP: to PR delivery pattern to complement pick-up pattern


### Add Solid Notification JSON-LD context
URL: https://github.com/solid/vocab/pull/62

* SC: Follows https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-12-16.md#add-solid-notification-json-ld-context
* SC: AC created the JSON-LD context. Please review.
* SC: I can follow up with TimBL and/or Editors to review + merge.
* AC: Vocab not in Turtle format.

* AC: We need to figure out this endpoint terminology before PR-ing
* eP: I think we can mark it as draft until ready for review and merge
* AC: I'll mark it as draft
* SC: Merging to that repo requires Tim and W3C access
* SC: If it is easy to mark it as draft go for it.


### Solid Notifications Vocabulary
* SC: Follows https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-12-16.md#add-solid-notification-json-ld-context
* SC: We'll need to follow-up on creating the vocab: http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/notification

* SC: This may go together with previous topic
* AC: Yes

### Solid Notifications Protocol ~FPWD
* SC: Follows https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-12-16.md#solid-notifications-protocol-fpwd

#### Notifications Protocol Publication Date
* SC: We shouldn't wait on major work to create a ~FPWD. Keeping that in mind:
* SC: Presuming no outstanding PRs blocking ~FPWD, agree to publish 2022-01-27...?
* SC: We can clean-up minor work as mentioned above, if Registries was approved above, should that be required before publication?
* SC: Wait to merge JSON-LD context and Vocabulary before publishing?


#### Notifications Protocol Draft URL
* SC: It should makes its way to `https://solidproject.org/TR/{shortname}` (via solid/specification repository). Not short but readable/guessable (also not that out of the ordinary, e.g., `activitystreams-core` or `-vocabulary`): `https://solidproject.org/TR/notifications-protocol`. Other suggestions?
* SC: Related: URLs of Subscription Types may need to be available in the same way. Solid Protocol will refer to both Solid Notifications Protocol and WebSocketSubscription2021 (or possibly "latest published version"?)

* eP: I don't understand why protocol would pick specific subscription type
* SC: In charter we marked web sockets subscription type as one to focus on
* SC: Any other subscription types we can mention the registry
* SC: We will not require all sub types to be MUST. If this panel think it should we can bring case forward.
* eP: Given is not backward compatible we should consider opening conversation which ones should be MUST
* SC: If this panel has strong argument we can pressure solid protocol.
* eP: I also see some possible security considerations with WebSocket subscription. Given connection to source relies on capability URL. I'll make issue of possible issue if notifications include payload besides URIs.
* SC: I think it will take a lot of energy to change from WebSocket being the MUST one.
* AC: AS panel I would prefer that we offer collection of possibilities. Without imposing hierarchy.
* AC: Solid Protocol can prioritize specific subscription type.

* eP: If we add diff of payloads, do we see it as new sub type or changing the current one
* AC: Both are possible. depends on that particular type's editor. For example, for thin notifications without additional info or fat notifications and could switch on that. This is kind of a different subscription so we could have a different URI. Depends on the editors and what they think of the implementations.
* eP: I'll create issue to track possible security considerations with data diffs behind capability url sources.


### Consolidating UCs
* RG: is there a plan to consolidate all Use stories and use cases? Do we plan to do it before publishing FPWD of the spec.
* SC: It will be in parallel
* AC: All stories and use cases will go in notifications-panel repository.
* RG: Most of them are sitting as issues. Is there a plan to add them to the document.
* RG: Should we start PRing them?
* SC: If there is enough agreement in issue making PR is good next step.
* eP: I will encourage you to make PR
* SC: Issues tend to hash out some immediate things
* SC: It's OK to add plain text in PR
* SC: If some UC can be specific to what we want to cover the issue would catch it.
* AC: proposal:

1. Create issue with use case described in markdown
2. Gather consensus on issue
3. Move text into PR as RDFa

* eP: I'm OK as long as we have clear way to mark issue as consensus and someone assigns oneself to make PR and deliver in reasonable time.


### CRUD Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/41
