# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-04-07T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Aaron Coburn
* Jackson Morgan
* elf Pavlik


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Aaron Coburn

### Introductions
* name: text


---

## Topics


### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback going forward. Links to servers/applications welcome.
* (none provided)

### Notifications Protocol and WebSocket Subscription Type PRs
* SC: Proposals to add technical reports TR/2022/notifications-protocol-20220401 and TR/2022/websocket-subscription-2021-20220401:
 * https://github.com/solid/specification#391
 * https://github.com/solid/specification#392
* SC: Updates can be done at source in the Editor's Drafts at https://github.com/solid/notifications . The snapshots that need to flow back to https://github.com/solid/specification can be done at:
 * https://github.com/solid/notifications/tree/TR/2022/notifications-protocol-20220401
 * https://github.com/solid/notifications/tree/TR/2022/websocket-subscription-2021-20220401
* SC: Some members of the Editors Team will review next week and afterwards. (SC will abstain in this review as an editor)
* SC: Questions or comments?
* eP: re Snapshots -- the date is April 1, what is the meaning of that date? Should we reconsider the date in the snapshot
* AC: Snapshot is from April 1st, if changes are suggested, those changes should go back into underlying specification; they should be opened as issues and resolved via PR. Than there would be another snapshot, let's say April 17th. If there are blocking reviews on April 1st, it would be closed and not merged.
* SC: the meaning of the date is borrowed from W3C rec specs. They all tend to have date URLs
* SC: this is a proposal to be published. If the PR is closed and there is a different snapshot, we will have a new date. Once approved, it is a minor edit to change the URLs. W3C tends to have a structure with a proposal to publish on a date (possibly in the future)
* eP: As long as they are immutable, and as long as the snapshot is immutable, then it would be fine. As long as there are after-the-fact changes from that snapshot
* SC: If we want to change the date, that is fine
* SC: As soon as we merge these PRs, the resources will be live
* eP: In terms of date published, if there are any changes to that snapshot, then we cut a new snapshot with a different date
* AC: +1 (on jitsi)
* SC: this debate is happening on the solid specification side. If there is a blocking review, then we would definitely need a new snapshot
* SC: The snapshots use version numbers as previously agreed in this panel. It may change based on Editors Team/process recommendation - TBD next week.
* SC: If there are changes to these URLs, they will be handled on the Solid Specification side. The panel should follow the recommendations of the editorial team
* SC: "pre-release" is the terminology under consideration
* eP: I think we can use this approach, for CR equivalence, "pre-release" seems appropriate. For earlier stages, "working draft" might be more appropriate
* SC: I was equating "pre-release" as anything before REC
* SC: for example 1.0.0-FPWD or 1.0.0-CR
* eP: for me, 1.0-rc.x (rc = release candidate) is more like a candidate recommendation CR (or even PR proposed candidate). Until that point, it makes more sense to use different terminology (e.g., working-draft) and 0.x versioning. 
* SC: Bikeshedding alert: Used `notifications-protocol` and `websocket-subscription-2021`  as "shortnames" in the snapshots. Not short-short but not unheard of either, e.g., https://www.w3.org/TR/annotation-protocol/ , https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-vocabulary/ . In [2022-03-31 meeting](https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-03-31.md#publication-of-notifications-protocol-fpwd)'s scratchpad, I was playing with `nopr` as abbreviation for the Notifications Protocol but not sure if that's great. Went ahead with the clear names for now.
* SC: Questions or comments?
* AC: +1 on the long format (e.g., `notifications-protocol`)
* eP: +1 on the long format
* SC: We'll go with that format. Are we OK with the `websocket-subscription-2021`?
* AC: +1
* eP: +1
* SC: I considered a different (shorter) name for LDN
* eP: LDN sounds fine
* AC: agreed, LDN seems fine

### Guidance to Subscription Type Publishers 1
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/59

* SC: Follows action of https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-03-31.md#registries-directory-index-for-subscription-types
* SC: I think it needs minor changes to the language, e.g., don't use text that hints at additional process that doesn't exist yet. The regular panel/CG process to receiving and reviewing PRs will do.
* SC: we want to be careful of "heavy" terms like "registry", but some minor adjustments would make it workable
* SC: At a high level, we don't want a lot of process around this
* AC: Agreed, +1 to a light weight process
* eP: In PR, there are some conversations, what is the state of those discussions?
* SC: I will follow up (I thought there would be an edit to the PR)

### URL of Notifications Protocol Subscription Types
* SC: Notifications Protocol is currently linking to the subscription types list at https://github.com/solid/notifications#subscription-types . It is also available from https://github.com/solid/notifications/blob/main/README.md#subscription-types .
* SC: I think the spec should use a URL under Solid (as a general rule): `https://solidproject.org/TR/{id}` and that document should only include the subscription types that are also published under Solid TR/. It is okay for the notifications panel to continue to list all ED subscription types in the GitHub repository.
* SC: For any documents that are published as part of this group, it should be published under the Solid Project URL space.
* SC: There are some exceptions for editor's drafts, though even some argue that those drafts should be under Solid Project
* SC: Would like to propose that this subscription type list should be published under the /TR/ namespace. It would only list those that have passed through the review process
* SC: For a canonical list, it should be under TR
* SC: If no objections, this needs to be an ACTION.
* AC: I think this is really good idea. I wrote the text that was linking to README and I didn't like it but we didn't have alternative at that time.
* ...: I would like that README lists things and serves as informal list. A list of possible sub types and from there point to the formal list. That formal list would go through review process and have approval from CG. 
* eP: I understand the document would be a living document and a light weight process, there will be many more subscription types in three years
* SC: It may be that anyone is able to update that list of subscription types
* SC: What we have from the panel's perspective is just those subscription types that we have as work items, but there can certainly be others
* SC: For example, after this panel's charter ends (end of year), there needs to be a mechanism to continue to add these subscription types to this /TR document
* eP: Would anyone like to volunteer to write this document
* AC: I can do that
* SC: There are three actions here
* eP: to avoid the chicken-egg problem, we can create an issue that tracks this so that we don't block ourselves
* SC: How is it chicken-egg
* eP: For now we can link to README, but track the issue separately so as not to block the forward progress of these other items
* SC: I'm ok with that
* AC: +1 from me

ACTION: AC to review RG's PR to adjust the text as described above (to move that process forward and to describe the purpose of this README) -- link to these minutes
ACTION: AC to create new document that will go to /TR/ (immediately after publishing the WS type), possibly immediately after the current spec PRs are merged
ACTION: update the solid notifications protocol to point to the new document
ACTION: AC to create an issue in the GH repository to track this



### Define Notification Content
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/60

* SC: Please review.
* SC: Notifications Protocol includes a core section for the Data Model. I suggest any extensions to be part of that instead of a separate document perhaps for the time being. Having said that, if the Data Model is or becomes too heavy, we should move that elsewhere.
* JM: If it makes sense to put this in the main protocol, that's fine, or it can be separate
* JM: notifications are not limited to RDF resources
* JM: should I list a scenario where a non-RDF resource is created or deleted
* SC: What are those scenarios? I don't necessarily think of them as different scenarios
* eP: How do you see a difference between an RDF and non-RDF resource (e.g., Photo and an aux resource to that photo)?
* JM: Not really a difference there
* JM: Will need to change "when an RDF resource is updated" to "when a resource is updated"
* eP: How do we handle aux resources? especially one linked with `describedBy`
* JM: Also rel=acl, do you subscribe to it?
* AC: Aux resources should have their own URL, in principle the client should be able to subscribe to those resources separately.
* JM: makes sense
* SC: makes sense
* SC: aux resources are typically described as RDF resources, but there isn't a strict requirement that they are RDF resources (there is an open issue about supporting non-RDF aux resources)
* SC: so we should be careful to support both RDF and non-RDF for notifications. This may be different when requesting the content changes
* JM: Sarven said that we should not be using LDP vocabulary for types
* SC: The notification protocol shouldn't _require_ a type, even if an implementation may end  up using the type. The more important question is: should the type of the resource be included in the notification?
* eP: Let's capture actions
    * Move PR to notification protocol
    * Let's leave the type discussion to a separate conversation/issue
* SC: let's emphasize the properties and not the values. For datatype restrictions (e.g., datetime) mention that, but generally leave out the value of each field
* JM: I think I already do that. In type I say it must be specific value. Or actor field must be mapped to WebID of agent initiating the subscription. Is that to much?
* SC: Normally actor has HTTP URI but need not say WebID.
* AC: Generally for the values we want to describe type but not the content. For actor I would say that it is "IRI identifying the agent", not mentioning WebID, one day could be DID. Also for AS types we don't want to constrain to it since other types could be used.
* JM: thanks, I'm all set on this topic

### Update Delta Feature
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/61

* SC: Please review.
* JM: This is a proposal that a number of people are interested in
* JM: this not only says that _some change_ happened but rather _what specifically changed_
* JM: This PR uses named graphs and which statements are added or removed to it.
* JM: blank nodes make this complicated
* eP: I approved this, I think this is a good starting point and we can start addressing the individual issues
* eP: Representing diffs and patches for Solid is complex and we'll need to think about this
* JM: I'm proposing this as a feature that a server may or may not support, is there any opposition to this as a concept?
* SC: No opposition. Extension of notification.
* JM: Trying to build some dev tools to keep data sources in sync
* eP: We need to consider ETags for this along with conditional requests
* AC: You need to consider state of the resource etc. I want to suggest [RDF delta](https://afs.github.io/rdf-delta/). It's not RDF itself but it is a way to represent patches and changes to RDF in distributed systems.
* SC: It would be good to reuse existing formats, if possible. Defining a format for deltas would be outside the scope of this panel
* AC: I'm very supportive to it. There are many edge cases and the devil lies in the details but this is very important direction.
* SC: There may also be some existing issues related to this (in one or more Solid-related repositories)
