# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-01-27T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Rahul Gupta
* Aaron Coburn
* Pete Edwards
* Jamie Fiedler
* elf Pavlik

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Aaron Coburn

---

## Topics

* SC: Topics related to ~FPWD excluded from this meeting agenda because there are dependencies (as listed here). They will be picked up once these dependencies are resolved.

### Server accepts GET, HEAD and OPTIONS requests targeting subscription resource.
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/29#issuecomment-1009840586

* SC: We agreed to PR this but didn't get to it. I can take this ACTION.
* SC: Solid Notifications will rely on the Solid Protocol, and so for any resource GET/HEAD/OPTIONS should be supported. Because this is a non-container resource (to date) and we expect it to receive a POST request, we may need to say something in particular about this.
* eP: In PR #33 the terminology may be relevant here. For example, a "subscription container".
* SC: the use of subscription container was mentioned in the comments of that PR. We should address that in the PR. If we open up the container possibility, we will need to consider the access control angle


### Define LinkedDataNotificationsSubscription2021 type for Solid Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/32

* SC: Noting that the TODO marked parts are non-normative (and can be updated any time.)
* SC: diagram does not currently exist. Overview and terminology are also not present. Suggest that it be approved now and the non-normative sections be fixed separately
* AC: +1 merge
* eP: +1 merge
* SC: aware that the terminology may need to be adjusted. If anyone has comments or wants to review, please do so (signal an intent to review); otherwise, we can merge.
* SC: noting current set of approvals, decision to merge



### A consistent naming scheme for Subscription Types
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/34

* SC: RG, would you like to summarise?
* RG: opened issue requesting a consistent naming scheme, but the response was that these are URIs and there is no need to have a naming scheme. Has not responded to these concerns but can see their point
* eP: the developers will likely not pick different subscription based on small changes of URIs, but rather on the underlying differences of the defined subscription mechanisms
* SC: there is only so much we can govern in this group. The Notification Protocol only defines that these are URIs but nothing about what those URIs look like. Having said that, if there is a useful practice that could emerge, that could be a consideration (e.g., a URI template)
* AC: URI Templates are defined re W3C, individuals components are path#fragment or query parameter. Usualy not a template subsection within a path. Not sure if URI Templates are
* eP: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6570
* SC: If the namespace is under W3C wouldn't that be useful as URI templte? It's not apropriate as name but we talk about URIs.
* eP: in terms of namespace, this seems like a governing model for a registry. If anyone can use any URI, they may choose not to use that particular registry and therefore not that URI pattern structure
* SC: i.e. for subscription types published outside of the given registry, there is no way to constrain that
* RG: Are you going to have rdf document describing the features?
* SC: we have discussed having these resources respond to GET/HEAD to be self-describing. The URI is just an identifier. It doesn't need to explain anything about itself in the string
* RG: have we defined a process for defining this?
* AC: Editors will define the subscription type and whatever the mechanism is e.g. websockets, webooks, ldn, and others, streams, eventsource.. each of those are subspecs having own authors, and they define the futures particular to that subscription type as well as the URI for it. if someone else didn't like it, or had other priorities, they can define a different type with an independent URI.
* RG: If you want to connect to a particular subscription type but not use a particular feature, this would make client interaction harder
* SC: how?
* RG: if I want to use a rate limiting feature in one context but not in a different context
* eP: https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol#notification-features
* SC: you have some of those features requested or available regardless of the type.
* RG: Is mechanism of features different for each subscription type.
* AC: Spec defines what possible, implementation defines what is implemented. Implementation may not implement rate limiting for example. As client I will be able to discover which features are available. You shouldn't expect that every implementation has the same set of features but you can expect to be able to discover it.
* SC: are we OK to mark this as resolved and close the issue?
* RG: I will think about it
* SC: will label as 'waiting for commenter' but won't bring this back into the agenda unless there is a significant update

### Replace 'endpoint' with API
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/30

* SC: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/33 is in DRAFT state. I suggest to continue working.
* eP: Last topic is related with regards to terminology.
* eP: marked as a draft because the GH worflow wasn't copied. The content is in a good state, though.
* eP: `source`: a client connects to this URI
* eP: `target`: async workflows (LDN, WebHooks) is where the notification is published
* eP: `source` -- typically a capability URI; the `target` flow, the subscriber provides a target and the publisher delivers notifications to the target. In these cases, unsubscription is important.
* eP: this is otherwise ready for review
* SC: why is the GH workflow required?
* eP: the sequence diagrams are stored as text and then rendered locally. In other panels, this process happens via GH actions.
* SC: SVG is a standard format, but the mermaid format is non-standard; ultimately, the spec just cares about the SVG (which can also be annotated)
* SC: the `source` / `target` naming: are we going to fast into this view? In ActivityStreams 2.0, the way these properties is used depends on the type of activity and whether certain other properties are present.
* SC: should we adopt the AS 2.0 terminology
* AC: I spend a lot of time working with AS, it includes 'source' and 'object' terminology. Use of object is so vague that I find it confusing. I'm hesitant to adopt 'object'. There is another term, I think 'target' which seems fine.
* SC: I also found 'object' confusing. I think it works out in the end. Part of the charter is that we have a protocol and a data model. How far are we going in terms of describing these notifications? Should we start with using AS2 in addition to our own extensions? We may also wait for implementations to say something about this. In the social web WG, the 'request activity' type was discussed. That could help address the terminology here.
* eP: we should definitely consider adopting terminology, but we need to be careful that the _meaning_ of these properties matches what we are trying to express. Once we have a clear model, that would make sense. For now, the question seems: should we adopt the AS2 properties?
* SC: if our description of the subscription request as well as the delivery of the notification, if those are mostly aligned with AS2, it may just be simpler for adoption or for anyone already using activity pub and already using AS2.
* SC: it this is going to be a minimal set of properties, then fine, but let's not go too far in that direction. Let's not duplicate work from AS2
* SC: reminder that we do use AS2 already in the Solid ecosystem
* AC: https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol#notification-data-model
* eP: the data model in the notification panel spec makes use of AS2, do we also imagine that the subscription activity is _also_ an AS2 event? Is the source of the update the Solid resource or the notification subscription API?
* SC: seems there is plenty to discuss. In ActivityPub, the target of the message is the person you want to follow. If we have a subscribe activity, that could be a subclass of an activity
* eP: let's start by defining the terminology we need and then see if it maps well to AS 2.0.



### Add use cases from notifications protocol document
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/45

* SC: Fulfills agreed ACTION. Pending any further discussion we can merge.
* SC: we can merge now
* eP: +1 merge


### CRUD Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/41

* SC: Any update?
* RG: no updates
* SC: what is pending on that issue?
* RG: not asking for clarification, want to identify a use case
* RG: in some cases it is not clear what happens if, e.g., a client wants to watch a container? By advancing the use case, it might get more attention
* RG: broader concern: for someone trying to develop an operating environment on top of Solid. Solid (appears to me to be) a protocol to work with. But I want to work seamlessly with a file system (e.g., solid-rest-library). Either I can use Solid as a base layer or use another layer on top of Solid. In doing so, what is the best way to define transports when using Solid
* AC: I think some of this is appropriate for best practices or primer document. Spec governs the rules of the road rather how to implement things.
* SC: that sounds about right
* SC: we discussed change activity, you subscribe to change activities to a resource. For example, you listen to create/update/delete
* SC: I believe we do address these use cases
* RG: these are sub-use cases within AS2, but AS2 seems more focused on social networks
* SC: there is an emphasis on social, but it is generic enough to describe any document and "things in general"
* SC: for example, when subscribing a client can request only "create" activities
* AC: JSON-LD allows us to layer things. We can use what we want from AS2 and for everything that doesn't exist there we just add custom @context.
* RG: one more concern -- there was a suggestion that AS2 is lightweight and fits in an IP packet, but for OS messages, why does it need to be so large
* AC: For operating system alert binary format would be better. We define here data transferred over the web, run over TCP/IP network in packets. We are using existing technologies JSON being one of them.
* RG: this may be out of scope, but there are two different worlds: desktop and browser
* AC: If you are interested in things that scale and work over web you will not be working with filesystems. I stopped working with filesystems a long time ago since they don't work well in this context.

### Source and Target flows
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/33

* eP: I just need to copy over github workflow to generate svgs from sources, what needs to be reviewed it's already in the PR
