# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-05-05T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i), SC
* Rahul Gupta, RG
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed), TT
* [Christoph Braun](https://github.com/uvdsl), CB
* [Abel Van den Briel](https://github.com/AbelVandenBriel), AB

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* [Christoph Braun](https://github.com/uvdsl)


### Introductions

* AB: I am a software developer at Digita, will be joining the next meetings, listening mostly, and contributing where possible. Already involved in the authentication panel, happy to join this one as well.

---

## Topics


### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback going forward. Links to servers/applications welcome.
* No feedback from the panel.


### URL of Notifications Protocol Subscription Types
* SC: Follow-up on https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-07.md#url-of-notifications-protocol-subscription-types and https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-14.md#url-of-notifications-protocol-subscription-types

* SC: Actions completed:

>ACTION: [..] create new document that will go to /TR/ (immediately after publishing the WS type), possibly immediately after the current spec PRs are merged

* SC: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/401
* SC: Proposed to be published at `https://solidproject.org/TR/notification-subscription-types`. Tentative name. The same URL linked from the Notifications Protocol.

>ACTION: [..] to review RG's PR to adjust the text as described above (to move that process forward and to describe the purpose of this README) -- link to these minutes

* SC: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/59#issuecomment-1118559477 , https://github.com/solid/notifications/commit/d19b943fbf2f4fcf66088fac9af1c5f0a5e7ccf6

>ACTION: [..] to create an issue in the GH repository to track this
* SC: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/66

>ACTION: update the solid notifications protocol to point to the new document

* SC: https://github.com/solid/notifications/commit/d19b943fbf2f4fcf66088fac9af1c5f0a5e7ccf6



### Reconsider Index/Registration of things about the Notifications Protocols
* SC: Question to the panel: While working on this, looked at did-spec-registries, which covers parameter, properties, ... It was not just about one part of the did spec. 
* SC: Can we broaden the purpose of this document to include any indexing of parameters, properties, and values used with the Solid Notifications Protocol?
* SC: Should we just call it a "registry"? And so use /TR/notification-protocol-registries 
* CB: Broadly familiar with the DID area. My personal take it that I like distinct documents. You mentioned features in the Protocol, which is not linked. I'm not sure if we should have another document besides that or thinking about have these separate.
* SC: I meant a single document covering anything that the Notification Protocol touches. At that moment we're only talking about subscription types but it could include other things.
* CB: I'd appreciate a singular documents and then subscription types but some may support only certain features. Separate documents for separate concerns. I think.
* RG: Do you mean this as a common document to serve as an index, or would it include a description of the features and types that you are talking about
* SC: Only an index, like did-spec, e.g. property names, property values, did-methods. Compare subscription types to did-methods, which is embedded in the did-spec document as a section, not a single document.
* RG: I would be in favour of having separate documents, as personal preference.
* SC: Asking TT for input...
* TT: Generally speaking, having a document per concern may be good depending on the volume there is for a concern. One liner does not require vs. bigger sections where a single-concern document may be more appropriate. No strong feeling either way.
* SC: shares screen, showing notification subscription types index document, a living document, presenting its contents. 
* SC: Whenever other types mature, the document is updated with the new types. If it is likeyl to have other things that need to have an index, e.g., feature types, it would only need to add another table instead of a whole another document.
* TT: This table is fine, for now, just a minor point regarding the caption of the table, which seems too small and italic but not bold. Should be bigger and italic and bold.
* RG: Just to clarify, would you have different indexing procedures for each index tables, if you would include multiple indexes in one document.
* SC: General procedure would be the same but we could have separate sections for different indexes.
* CB: If we have a general addendum/appendix document, wouldn't it be better to have all that stuff in the Notifications Protocol and then have a Primer. :) Sorry, I got confused by my thoughts.
* SC: NP will be published and that may be it. But new subscription types can emerge and we only need to update the index for it and nothing else. NP doesn't list any subscription types. That was something we agreed previously.
* CB: What would the document be called if it were more generalised.
* SC: Notification Protocol Registries as mentioned earlier. Didn't think much about this. Just copied the idea from DID Spec Registries.


### Notifications Protocol and WebSocket Subscription Type PRs
* SC: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/391 and https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/392
* SC: One review from the Editor's Team. <del>Another review to follow "soon".</del>
* SC: Will follow up the current review - seems to be minor and non-blocker for this publication. We can wait for other reviews before making any changes.
* SC: I'm okay to take the action to update the ED and the proposed TR. And then merge both PRs.
* SC: Issue is that the notification Protocol links to subscription notification types, but the URI is not approved yet.
* SC: Possible solution: Approve all 3 PR (above two and https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/401 ) at the same time.
* SC: If no objections to that idea, I'll follow-up.
* CB: Scribe notes silent approval by the panel.
* RG: Could you hold of on 391 for a day?
* SC: of course, I'd like to see 401 approved, so when we update 391 based on the review
* RG: I have spoken on the issue before, and I would like to respond to 391 again.
* SC: OK


### Storage Description
* SC: I was hoping that we somehow resolve https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/355 and get that factored into the initial publication - brought that up in the last Editor's Team meeting but we didn't get too far into that. Needs a bit more work. Might not get that done in this week.
* SC: So.. we definitely need to let this go for this release and hope to include/reference it in a future release of the Notifications Protocol release.
* SC: We have an open issue for this: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/58
* SC: We want the discovery to be made available on the Solid Protocol level and Notifications Protocol will refer to it as retrieving the meta data. The Notification Protocol does not explain this right now. I think we should leave 355 to be resolved and let that cover 58.
* SC: If you build an application, please chime in at 355. There is discussion about the leading solution right now.
* SC: The Notification Protocol should not deal with this, the Storage makes this available. Each resource may have different channels, which are to be discovered from the meta-data resources the storage provides.


### Protocol doesn't mention Subscription Response
* SC: Follows action of https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-28.md#protocol-doesnt-mention-subscription-response re https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/57 

* SC: I didn't get to doing this.


### Define WebPushSubscription2022 type for Solid Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/64

* SC: Please review.
* CB: Looking forward to discussion regarding terminology as I stated in the issue. The issue about modelling and finding the right terms for the things we model would be beneficial prior to merging or we update it then. I don' think i can work further issue without having clarification on the modeling. From my POV, we can merge, but I think to advance the subscription type definitions, we should discuss the container resource and terminology around that.
* SC: Any of the comments require you to update the PR?
* CB: One of them is a terminology thing. I don't think there is a major revision. Unless you say that we have to resolve this before merging. Or rename it, then I will go ahead and do that.
* SC: I'll review and merge if non-blockers.

### Open Discussion
* Regarding
  * https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/36,
  * https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/63, and
  * https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/49:
* Providing the current status of the discussion and providing opportunities to chime in.
