# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-05-19T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* elf Pavlik
* Aaron Coburn
* [Christoph Braun](https://github.com/uvdsl)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* elf Pavlik


### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback going forward. Links to servers/applications welcome.
* SC: My intent is to implement issue 355 (in solid spec repo). It has to do with storage description.


### Summary of TR publications from this panel
* SC: https://solidproject.org/TR/notifications-protocol , https://solidproject.org/TR/websocket-subscription-2021 , https://solidproject.org/TR/notification-subscription-types are now published.
* SC: There is an action to update https://solidproject.org/ED/protocol so that it refers to these TRs but the level of requirement is still under discussion by the Editors of that spec ( https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-18.md#change-reference-to-solid-notifications-protocol ). Will keep you posted.
* SC: Solid Protocol currently mentions Notification Protocol in non-normative way. We need to update requirements around that. It still references old non secure web sockets as SHOULD.
* ...: We still haven't agreed on exact requirement level. There will need to be some transition period to deprecate the old protocol.
* eP: I saw that WebSubscription was marked as 1.0.0 and NP is 0.1.0. I think if we mark that 1.0.. we need to mark WS 2022.. and 1.0 subtype won't be compatible. That may be a versioning problem.
* AC: If that happens, then the websubscriptiontype 2021 .. there will need to be a new one eg 2022, then the protocol will refer specifically to that. we have the registry doc, which currently pints to subtypes. if notification protocol changes in material way such that 2021 is no longer compatible, in that registry we need a mechanism that 2021 works with protocol 0.1.0.. and 2022 of subtype works with later.
* eP: All types now are compatible with 0.1.0 and we can keep that explicit
* AC: Could do that in the subscription type document in the sense that.. let's say in 2021, protocol 0.1.0 and when protocol 1.0 is released then we have to update subtype to 1.0 in addition to 0.1. if we can do that from an external doc like the registry, that will help.
* SC: I agree on the idea that subscription type do not need to state the compatibility unless there are major changes. So for example if sub type works with v1 of protocol and than v2 of the protocol comes out.
* ...: Right now we don't do any versioning just relate to the latest version of the notification protocol.
* ...: Is there anything there really dependent of how the notifications protocol works?
* AC: If we abandon JSON-LD that would be challenging. If we radically change the properties eg `subscription`. It's really about changing names of things.
* SC: Would it make sense to have outline documented somewhere?
* CB: Dataformat? For WebPush I just want RDF 
* CB:for Names, I try to adhere to the Protocol but I think that would work independently
* SC: In general we want to let the protocol evolve. For example in protocol v2 we still would want WS2021 to work.
* AC: Right now we can navigate all of that. Even if we have new properties that are not defined in JSON-LD context that we provide (still a draft PR). What's possible, the new sub type can just define a new JSON-LD context. It might make more sense to have each sub-type define their own context. The metadata document would point to sub type that are available. If there is new sub type it can still use follow your nose approach.
* AC: We can still make significant changes to the protocol and it should still work
* SC: We are leaning on the idea that protocol will have a mechanism to discover storage metadata. For example there is a HTTP Link header. If down the line Solid Protocol drops the whole thing, the clients which rely on that header would still work.
* eP: Given specific example, .. currently websocketsub type marked as 1.0.0.. interactions with , e.g. changing 'topic' to 'object'
https://solidproject.org/TR/websocket-subscription-2021#subscription-type
* SC: I think we should have an issue capturing dependencies of notification protocol and subscription types.
* AC: If anything I see it as motivation to move forward with 1.0 release of notifications protocol.
* SC: I recall discussion that if notification protocol changes, than we will create websockets 2022
* eP: My understanding was that stable 1.0 of sub types would depend on stable 1.0 of protocol. Currently we have WS 1.0 depending on 0.1 of protocol which could break in few weeks.

### Work towards Notifications Protocol 1.0.0
* SC: The charter for the panel was until end of this year. We shouldn't wait till the december. By Q3 we should have 1.0 out or at least proposed.
* SC: If there are new features or things changing we could be at 1.3 or 1.4 by December if needed.
* ...: I'll focus on spec#355 since it seems to be holding the protocol.



### Discovery of Notification Subscription Metadata
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/58

* SC: Continuation of https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-05.md#storage-description
* SC: Not much to say but worth emphasising:
* SC: If you build an application, please chime in at 355. There is discussion about the leading solution right now.
* CB: is the meta data resource implemented in NSS 
* SC: Nothing implemented right now
* CB: Okay, so the idea would be to manually put such a meta data resource in place? to showcase it? 
* SC: I'm going to use one of my own servers as a playground
* CB: Okay, maybe I can do that with my inbox-watcher... If I find the time for that. No promises.
* SC: One could make a PR to showcase it but it probably wouldn't be accepted until it lands in spec.

### Protocol doesn't mention Subscription Response
* SC: Follows action of https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-28.md#protocol-doesnt-mention-subscription-response re https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/57 .
* SC: And... I'm sorry, I didn't get to it! But I so double promise to do this soon. It is straight forward. It'll help me to review ldn-subscription-type.
* eP: I want to check with Aaron what he thinks
* AC: In terms of the protocol it would be its responsibility to define structure of those payloads.
* eP: currently protocol doesn't even clearly define those two terms `subscription request` and `subscription response`
* AC: +1 to defining those terms
* CB: I would like the subscription response to be optional.
* ...: Web Push works just with 201 CREATED, no data given back is needed
* SC: One thing is for protocol to define those terms. Second how subscription extend it and if for example specific sub type requires payload in the response.
* CB: Okay, agreed, then I was overthinking.
* eP: For 201 Created is the 'Location' required? If so we don't really create a resource based on subscription request.
* SC: I think POST would have a location.
* AC: if no Location field is received, by the effective request URI. https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc7231.html#status.201
* CB: if no resource is created, it's a 204 of course.
* CB: okay, then we are at the discussion about whether or not the subscription is materialised as a resource...?
* SC: Subscription API doesn't require a solid server. We may need to just refer to HTTP RFCs.
* CB: Yes, I was just thinking if the Solid Notifications would like to be similar to how a Solid Pod is defined (i.e. using/being based on LDP). 
* SC: AC can correct me but I think Notification Protocol only requires the storage metadata resource and doesn't further require a Solid Protocol.
* CB: No, I do not want to require a Solid Server/Pod, but I think that you could design Solid Notifications similar to a Solid Protocol.
* CB: Yes, lets talk next week again. Thank you for your patience today.

ACTION: SC to add this topic to next week's agenda

### Define WebPushSubscription2022 type for Solid Notifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/64

* SC: Merged. CB, Add link to https://github.com/solid/notifications/blob/main/README.md#subscription-types .
* CB: Where should I add that? Ah, the readme in the Notifications repo. 
* CB: For clarification, should that change also be a PR, yes I assume (sorry if that is obvious. I am still getting used to the etiquette)?
* SC: I know there are some unresolved conversations there. It's ok for ED, especially the first ED. We can pick up the issues. We should make sure we track them.
* CB: Sure, I am happy to modify and improve the draft.
* SC: If there are some small non-normative changes it's ok to commit directly. Anything that needs attention of others, especially normative-changes it's preferred to create a PR. No issue with adding link to README via direct commit.
* CB: I don't mind to open a PR for small things, just wanted to know your workflow. Okay, thank you.
